
QNX SOFTWARE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
 
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
================ 
 
READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS QNX SOFTWARE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT (THE "AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY BEFORE CHECKING "I ACCEPT" OR ACCESSING THESE QNX MATERIALS (AS DEFINED BELOW). 
 
THIS AGREEMENT REPRESENTS THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU (THE "LICENSEE") AND THE MATHWORKS, INC. ("MATHWORKS") CONCERNING THE QNX SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION FROM BLACKBERRY CORPORATION ("BLACKBERRY") MADE AVAILABLE FOR ACCESS HEREUNDER (COLLECTIVELY, THE "QNX MATERIALS"). 
 
BY CHECKING "I ACCEPT" OR ACCESSING THESE QNX MATERIALS, YOU ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.   
 
 
1. DEFINITIONS.  
 
1.1.  "Licensee" means you, whether an individual or an entity, to whom MathWorks grants the License, and who is responsible for complying with the contractual obligations of the License, and ensuring that anyone permitted access to the QNX Materials also complies with such obligations. 
 
1.2.  "Development Tools" means any components of the QNX SDP 7.0 Software provided by MathWorks to Licensee that do not constitute Runtime Configuration. 
 
1.3.  "Documentation" means the user guides, if any, accompanying delivery of the QNX Materials, as may be updated from time to time.  Documentation may be delivered in printed and/or online forms, and in one or more languages.  
 
1.4.  "Licensee Application" means an application created by Licensee or its authorized user, using the Required Base Product, for use on a Target System. 
  
1.5.  "Licensor" means any person who, or entity which, grants a license to MathWorks or to BlackBerry to redistribute that person's or entity's intellectual property. BlackBerry is a Licensor of MathWorks. 
 
1.6.  "QNX Materials" means the QNX computer software and/or other related artifacts delivered and licensed hereunder, including the Runtime Configuration, Development Tools, Documentation, enhancements and error corrections.   
 
1.7.  "Required Base Product" means Simulink Real-Time. Licensee's use of the Required Base Product is subject to the terms and conditions of The MathWorks, Inc. Software License Agreement that accompanies the Required Base Product (the "MathWorks SLA"). 
 
1.8.  "Runtime Configuration" means the components of QNX SDP 7.0 Software, provided in object code format, forming Runtime Configuration 910761 (as published by BlackBerry on www.qnx.com or in the QNX Neutrino Realtime Operating System Runtime Technologies section of the applicable Product Portfolio Guide for the QNX Software), or any updates thereto provided by MathWorks to Licensee.  
 
1.9.  "Target System" means Speedgoat hardware containing a whole or partial copy of the Runtime Configuration that may be further modified through the use of the Development Tools. 
 
1.10.  "Third Party" means any person or legal entity that is not MathWorks or the Licensee.  
  
2. LICENSE GRANT.  MathWorks hereby grants to Licensee, subject to Licensee's compliance with the terms of this Agreement, a nonexclusive, nontransferable license (the "License") solely (i) to install, use, and copy the Runtime Configuration for the purpose of running, distributing, and supporting Licensee Applications for use on Target Systems; and (ii) to install, use, and copy the Development Tools, in conjunction with the Required Base Product, to create, develop, and test Licensee Applications; except for the gdb.exe debugging tool, which Licensee is only permitted to use in a post-mortem mode to investigate a Licensee Application that did not run successfully on the Target System.  In all cases, the QNX Materials are licensed to Licensee only for use in connection with and only for the term of Licensee's validly licensed Required Base Product.  
 
3. LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.  The License is subject to the express restrictions set forth below. 

3.1. General Restrictions. Licensee is not permitted to do any of the following: 

3.1.1. modify, or create any derivative work of, any part of the QNX Materials;  
 
3.1.2. adapt, translate, copy, or convert all or any part of the QNX Materials in order to create software or other materials, a principal purpose of which is (a) to perform the same or similar functions as the QNX Materials or any other technology or materials or any products licensed by MathWorks, or (b) to replace any component of the QNX Materials or any other technology or materials or any products licensed by MathWorks;  
 
3.1.3. rent, lease, or loan the QNX Materials; use the QNX Materials for supporting Third Parties' use of the QNX Materials, time share the QNX Materials, or provide service bureau use;  
 
3.1.4. disassemble, decompile, reverse engineer the QNX Materials or otherwise attempt to gain access to their method of operation or source code (other than files provided for convenience in source code form, if any);  
 
3.1.5. sell, license, sublicense, publish, display, distribute, disseminate, assign, or otherwise transfer (whether by sale, exchange, lease, gift, or otherwise) to a Third Party the QNX Materials, any copy or portion thereof, or any License or other rights thereto, in whole or in part, without MathWorks  prior written consent;  
 
3.1.6. alter, remove, or obscure any copyright, trade secret, patent, trademark, logo, proprietary and/or other legal notices on or in copies of the QNX Materials; 
 
3.1.7. provide access (directly or indirectly) to the QNX Materials via a web or network application other than the licensee's internal network;   
 
3.1.8. copy, make available for copy, or otherwise reproduce the QNX Materials, in whole or in part, except either (a) as may be required for their installation into computer memory for the purpose of executing the QNX Materials in accordance with this Agreement; or (b) to make a reasonable number of copies solely for back-up purposes provided that any such permitted copies shall reproduce all copyright, trade secret, patent, logo, proprietary and/or other legal notices contained in the original copy obtained from MathWorks; and/or 
 
3.1.9. republish the Documentation. 


3.2. Additional QNX Usage Terms. Licensee must do all of the following: 

3.2.1. ensure that any end user or Third Party receiving the QNX Materials as part of a Licensee Application is bound by terms as restrictive as the terms of this Agreement, including without limitation all the restrictions in this Section 3; 

3.2.2. keep the QNX Materials, including the Documentation, confidential at all times and treat them with at least the same degree of care and sensitivity as Licensee would treat its own confidential information, but no less than a reasonable standard of care; 

3.2.3. comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, codes, regulations and policies applicable to the receipt, distribution, use of and/or access to the QNX Materials;  

3.2.4. ensure that there is reasonable tracking and reporting of the distribution of the QNX Materials;  

3.2.5. not use the QNX Materials beyond the limited license rights expressly granted in this Agreement, including, but not limited to not using, copying or distributing any part of the QNX Materials for any use other than as expressly stated in Section 2 above;  

3.2.6. not alter, remove, or cover any proprietary or licensing notice(s) in or on any part of the QNX Software, including in any "about" box, "flash" / "splash" screen or documentation; 

3.2.7. not use unauthorised license keys; 

3.2.8. not decompile, disassemble, decrypt, extract or otherwise attempt or assist others to reverse engineer any part of the QNX Materials, including circumventing any license key activation or evaluation period expiry mechanisms;

3.2.9. not cause the QNX Materials to be subject to an open source license, encumbrance or scheme;

3.2.10. not directly or indirectly, export, import or transmit the QNX Materials to any country in contravention of the export or import laws of that country or the laws of Canada or the United States; 

3.2.11. not update the QNX Materials with new versions or releases, except updates that QNX expressly authorizes; and 

3.2.12. not reproduce, distribute, host or sublicense the QNX Materials, including the Documentation, beyond the limited authorized license rights associated with the Target System which MathWorks has expressly granted to Licensee under this Agreement. 

3.3. Licensee's license to the ONX Materials will terminate immediately if Licensee asserts a patent on BlackBerry relating to the QNX Materials or brings a claim that the QNX Materials are infringing.

4. RETENTION OF RIGHT, TITLE AND INTEREST BY BLACKBERRY AND ITS LICENSORS; CONFIDENTIALITY.  The QNX Materials shall at all times remain the property of BlackBerry and/or its Licensors. Licensee acknowledges and warrants that it acquires no title in or to the QNX Software, including any intellectual property rights. The QNX Materials are a commercially valuable product of BlackBerry, the design and development of which reflect the efforts of skilled development experts and the investment of considerable time and expense. Licensee shall take appropriate action by instruction, agreement, or otherwise with any persons permitted access to the QNX Materials, so as to enable Licensee to satisfy its obligations under the terms of this Agreement.  The QNX Materials are proprietary information of BlackBerry, and are protected by copyright law, trade secret law and other applicable law.   
 
5. LICENSES FOR THIRD PARTY MATERIALS.  If the QNX Materials contain software or other artifacts from Licensors who require that a separate license be accepted by Licensee in order to use their software or artifacts, such Third Party licenses are included in text files within the QNX Materials.  Licensee agrees that by accepting this Agreement, Licensee also accepts the terms of such Third Party licenses and that MathWorks and BlackBerry bear no liability with respect to such Third Party software or artifacts.  MathWorks, BlackBerry and their respective representatives do not make or pass on to Licensee any warranty or representation on behalf of any Third Party.

6. HIGH RISK APPLICATIONS.  Licensee acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the QNX Materials are offered as a general purpose, modular, real-time operating system; (ii) there will be errors (which may include critical errors) in the QNX Materials; (iii) selecting and integrating modules of the QNX Materials into a runtime Target System environment requires many design decisions which impact the operation, performance and reliability of the Target System; (iv) the operation, performance and reliability of the QNX Materials in the Target System may also be affected by error corrections or enhancements, and by changes to the associated hardware or software environments; (v) error corrections may not be subjected to the same level of quality assurance testing to which BlackBerry subjects its commercially released software products; (vi) Licensees who engage in high risk applications must conduct thorough testing to identify and correct problems prior to the release of Target Systems, and prior to the release of any modifications, updates or enhancements thereto; (vii) such testing requires an intimate knowledge of the overall Target System design, and the nature and scope of ongoing changes; and (viii) BlackBerry has minimal experience in or knowledge of the risks associated with Licensee's direct and indirect use of the Target System, and has no control over Licensee's testing programs or decisions to release Target Systems.

7. TERMINATION.  This License expires at the end of the term of Licensee's license to the Required Base Product, except that either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  written notice in the event of breach by the other party, unless the breaching party cures such breach within thirty (30) days of notice if such breach is curable.  Upon termination, Licensee shall promptly return all but archival copies of the QNX Materials in Licensee's possession or control, or promptly provide written certification of their destruction. 
  
8. EXPORT CONTROL.  The QNX Materials may be subject to U.S. export control laws or other (U.S. and non-U.S.) governmental export and import laws and regulations.   Licensee's rights under this Agreement may not be exercised by Licensee or any Third Party in violation of such laws and regulations, nor may this Agreement be transferred to any party where doing so would result in such a violation. It shall be Licensee's responsibility to comply with the latest United States or other governmental export and import regulations. 
 
9. FEDERAL ACQUISITION.  This provision applies to all acquisitions of the QNX Materials and Documentation by, for, or through the federal government of the United States. By accepting delivery of the QNX Materials or Documentation, the government hereby agrees that this software or documentation qualifies as commercial computer software or commercial computer software documentation as such terms are used or defined in FAR 12.212, DFARS Part 227.72, and DFARS 252.227-7014. Accordingly, the terms and conditions of this Agreement and only those rights specified in this Agreement, shall pertain to and govern the use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, and disclosure of the QNX Materials and Documentation by the federal government (or other entity acquiring for or through the federal government) and shall supersede any conflicting contractual terms or conditions.  
 
10. FOR EUROPEAN UNION LICENSEES ONLY.  Any contractual provisions of this Agreement contrary to laws implemented under Article 6 of Appendix V of the European Union Software Directive or to the exceptions provided for in Article 5(2) and (3) of such Appendix shall be null and void solely to the extent decompiling, disassembling, or otherwise reverse-engineering of the QNX Materials is necessary to enable the Licensee to create an independent program that is interoperable with the QNX Materials or any other permitted objectives specified by such laws implemented under such directive (collectively, the "Permitted Objectives"), provided that any such information gained is used solely for such Permitted Objectives.  
 
11. ASSIGNMENT.  Licensee may not assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement and its rights and obligations hereunder, in whole or in part, by operation of law or otherwise, without the written consent of MathWorks.  In the case of any permitted assignment or transfer of or under this Agreement, this Agreement or the relevant provisions shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the successors, executors, heirs, representatives, administrators and assigns of the parties hereto.  MathWorks may charge Licensee an administrative fee for any permitted assignment. 
 
12. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  The QNX Materials should not be relied on as the sole basis to solve a problem or implement a design whose incorrect solution or implementation could result in injury to person or property.  If the QNX Materials are employed in such a manner, it is at the Licensee's own risk and MathWorks and its Licensors explicitly disclaim all liability for such misuse to the extent allowed by law.  MathWorks  and its Licensors' liability for death or personal injury resulting from negligence or for any other matter in relation to which liability by law cannot be excluded or limited shall not be excluded or limited.  Except as aforesaid, (a) any other liability of MathWorks and its Licensors (whether in relation to breach of contract, negligence or otherwise) shall not in total exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00); and (b) MathWorks and its Licensors, and their respective affiliates, officers, employees, agents, suppliers, distributors, or licensors shall have no liability for any indirect, incidental, special or consequential loss (whether foreseeable or otherwise and including loss of profits, loss of business, loss of opportunity, and loss of use of any computer hardware or software or other commercial or economic loss).  Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so the above exclusion or limitation may not apply to Licensee.  This Section shall survive and apply notwithstanding the failure of essential purpose of any limited remedy.
 
13. SUPPORT. Provided that Licensee is then receiving support for the Required Base Product, MathWorks shall provide support for the QNX Materials in the same manner as for the Required Base Product. BlackBerry has no obligation to provide support. Further, BlackBerry has no responsibility for Target System development, manufacturing, reproduction, assembly, marketing, distribution, licensing, installation, training, maintenance, updating, or support. 
 
14. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES.  The QNX Materials are delivered  as is.  MathWorks, BlackBerry, and their Licensors make, and the Licensee receives, no additional express or implied warranties.  MathWorks, BlackBerry and their Licensors hereby expressly disclaim any and all other conditions, warranties, or other terms of any kind or nature concerning the QNX Materials (including, without limitation, any with regard to infringement, merchantability, quality, accuracy, or fitness for a particular purpose or Licensee's purpose).  MathWorks also expressly disclaims any warranties that may be implied from usage of trade, course of dealing, or course of performance.  The QNX Materials are provided with all faults, and the entire risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with Licensee.  MathWorks and BlackBerry do not warrant that the QNX Materials will operate without interruption or be error free or that errors will be corrected.  Some states and countries do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, so the above limitation may not apply to Licensee.  Licensee may also have other rights which vary from state to state and country to country.  Licensee accepts responsibility for its use of the QNX Materials and the results obtained therefrom. 
 
15. GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION.  This Agreement shall be interpreted, enforced and construed and the rights of the parties hereunder governed in all respects by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, United States of America, without regard to its conflicts of law provisions, and both parties consent to the jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located in said Commonwealth and consent to the service of process, pleadings and notices in connection with any and all actions initiated in such courts.  The parties agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and binding and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction.  To the extent any governing law, treaty, or regulation is in conflict with this Agreement, the conflicting terms of this Agreement shall be superseded only to the extent necessary by such law, treaty, or regulation.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be otherwise unlawful, void, or otherwise unenforceable, that provision shall be enforced to the maximum extent permissible.  In either case, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.  The parties agree that the U.N. Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to this Agreement.  The parties further agree that the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act, or any version thereof, adopted by any state, in any form ("UCITA"), shall not apply to this Agreement.  To the extent that UCITA is applicable, the parties agree to opt out of the applicability of UCITA pursuant to the Opt-Out provision(s) contained therein.  
 
16. HEADINGS.  The inclusion of headings is for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement. 
 
17. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with regard to the QNX Materials, and may not be modified or amended except by written instrument, executed by authorized representatives of MathWorks and Licensee.

12/2020
