This folder contains the template (default.dotx) that the Section 
reporter uses to generate Word output. Customize this template to 
customize the Section (or Chapter) reporter's output.

CONTENTS

  OPEN THE SECTION REPORTER TEMPLATE
  OPEN THE SECTION REPORTER DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE LIBRARY
  SECTION DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATES
  CUSTOMIZE A DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE
  CREATE AN INLINE HOLE
  CREATE A BLOCK HOLE
  SHOW DEVELOPER TAB
  EDIT HEADERS AND FOOTERS


OPEN THE SECTION REPORTER TEMPLATE

To open the section reporter template in Word, 

1. Select the template file (default.dotx) in Windows File Explorer.
2. Right click on the template file. A context menu appears.
3. Select Open from the context menu to open the template in Word.

Note: Do not try to open the template by double-clicking on the template
file in Windows File Explorer. Double-clicking on the template file does
not open the template itself in Word. Instead, it opens a new document file
based on the template. This is not what you want.

Note: The Section reporter uses templates stored in this template's
document part template library. It ignores the content of the main
template. Thus the template appears empty when you open it in Word. To
customize the Section (or Chapter) reporter output, customize the
templatess in the main template's document part template library.

OPEN THE SECTION REPORTER DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE LIBRARY

To open the Section reporter's document part template library:

1. Select Insert from the Word ribbon. The Insert tab appears.
2. Select Quick Parts from the Insert tab. The Quick Parts Gallery's
   drop down menu appears. It displays the quick parts that serve as 
   templates for the Word output generated by the Section reporter.

SECTION DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATES

The Section reporter's document part template library contains the
following templates.

* Section 1

  This template defines the content and page layout of a top-level section.
  It contains the following elements

      - Title hole. The Section (or Chapter) reporter fills this hole
        with the title of the top-level section, e.g. 
        "Chapter 1. Introduction".

      - Content hole. The Section (Chapter) reporter fills this hole with
        the value of the reporter's Content property. 

      - Section break. The section break defines the page layout of the
        top-level section and all its subsections. The page layout 
        includes page margins, orientation (portrait, landscape), and page
        headers and footers.

        The Section1 section break (page layout)  defines separate headers
        for the first page of a section and for the remaining pages. The 
        first page header is empty. The header for the remaining pages
        contains a Word StyleRef field. This causes Word to display a 
        running head for the section, i.e., the  title of the top-level 
        section (reporter) on all pages of the section (chapter) except 
        the first. A running head allows a reader to determine chapter
        to which the current page belongs. Search for 
        "word styleref field in header" in a web browser for more 
        information.

        The Section1 section break defines a page footer for all 
        pages of a section. The page footer contains a Page field. Word
        replaces this field with the number of the current page. The
        Section reporter specifies 1 as the starting page number for the
        first top-level section in a report. Subsequent sections continue
        from the number of the last page of the previous section.

* Section 2 - Section 6

  These templates define the content of a section's subsections via 
  Title and Content holes, respectively. The Section reporter uses the
  Section 2 template to define the output of a Section appended to a 
  Section reporter. It uses the Section 3 template to define the output
  of a Section appended to a top-level section, etc.

* SectionNumberedTitle1 - SectionNumberedTitle6

  These templates define the content of hierarchically numbered
  titles of level 1-6 sections. If the Numbered property of a Section
  reporter is true, the Section reporter uses these templates
  to generate the titles that it uses to fill the Title holes of Section
  1-6 templates. Each template contains a NumberPrefix, NumberSuffix, and a
  Content hole. The Section reporter fills the Content hole with the
  value of the Section reporter's Title property. The Prefix and Suffix
  holes are reserved for subclasses of the Section reporter. The Chapter
  reporter uses these holes to generate localized versions of a "Chapter"
  prefix.

* SectionTitle1 - SectionTitle6

  These templates define the content of unnumbered titles of level 1-6
  sections. If the Numbered property of a Section reporter is false, the
  Section reporter uses these templates to generate titles that it uses to
  fill the Title holes of Section 1-6 templates. Each template has a 
  Content hole. The Section reporter fills the hole with the value of
  the reporter's Title property.

CUSTOMIZE A DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE

To customize a Section reporter document part template:

1. Select Quick Parts from Word's Insert tab.

   The gallery drop-down menu appears. The menu displays the names and
   thumbnail images of the document part templates.

2. Select the template to be customized from the gallery.

   Word inserts the template text into the main template document.

3. Use Word to edit the template content.
   
   Note: If you are customizing a template for a customized version of the
   Section reporter, i.e., a subclass of the Section (or Chapter) reporter 
   class, you can use inline or block holes to insert values of properties 
   of your customized reporters in the customized template. See 
   CREATE AN INLINE HOLE for information on how to create an inline hole 
   in the edited template. See CREATE A BLOCK HOLE for information on how 
   to create a block hole in a template.

4. Select the template content.

5. Select Quick Parts from Word's Insert tab.

   The Quick Parts gallery drop-down menu appears.

6. Select "Save Selection to Quick Part Gallery..." from the drop-down
   menu.

   The Create New Building Block dialog appears.

7. Enter the name of the template you are customizing in the Name edit
   box.

8. Enter mlreportgen in the Category edit box.

9. Select OK.

   Word saves the updated template content to the Quick Parts gallery.

10. Delete the edited template content from the body of the template.

11. Save the template document.

CREATE AN INLINE HOLE

An inline hole is a hole that occurs in a paragraph. If you are creating
a customized version of a Section (or Chapter reporter), you can use
an inline hole to insert the value of a property of your customized 
Section reporter in the reporter's output. The property's value must be
content that can occur in a paragraph, such as text or an image. To create 
an inline hole in a template:

1. Position the cursor in a paragraph at a point where the hole is to
   occur.

2. Select Developer from the Word editor ribbon.

   The Developer tab appears. 

   Note: If the Developer tag does not  appear on the Word ribbon, 
   you must select the show Developer tab option. See
   SHOW DEVELOPER TAB for more information.

3. Select the Rich Text Control from the Developer toolbar.

   Word inserts a Rich Text Control at the cursor positiion. The Section
   reporter uses the control to indicate the position and properties of
   the inline hole.

4. Select Properties from the Developer toolbar.

   The Content Control Properties dialog box appears.

4. Enter the name of the hole in the Title and Tag edit boxes of the 
   Content Control Properties dialog. The name of the hole must be the
   same as the name of the property whose value fills the hole at report
   generation time.

5. (Optional) Specify a default style to apply to the text that fills this
   hole. To specify the style:

    i. Select "Use a style to format text typed into empty control".
   ii. Select a style from the Style drop-down menu.

       Note: the style must be a text style or a linked text or paragraph
       style. If the style does not appear in the list, create the style
       and reselect this option.

6. Select OK to close the dialog box.

7. Save the template document.

CREATE A BLOCK HOLE

A block hole is a hole that occurs in the body of a document or a table
entry. It can contain block level elements, such as paragraphs and tables.
If you are creating a customized version of a Section (or Chapter 
reporter), you can use a block hole to insert the value of a property of 
your customized Section reporter in the reporter's output. The property's 
value must be one or more block level objects, such as paragraphs, tables
lists, etc., To create a block hole in a template:

 1. Select the Home toolbar on the Word ribbon.

 2. Select the Show/Hide Paragraph Marks button on the Home toolbar.

   Selecting this button causes Word to display paragraph marks at the end
   of each paragraph in the document.

 3. Create an empty paragraph at the point in the template where you want
    to create a block hole. Skip this step if an empty paragraph already
    exists at this location.

 4. Select the paragraph mark at the end of the empty paragraph.

 5. Select Developer from the Word editor ribbon.

    The Developer toolbar appears. 

    Note: If the Developer toolbar does not  appear on the Word ribbon, 
    you must enable the Developer toolbar. See
    ENABLE DEVELOPER TOOLBAR for more information.

 6. Select the Rich Text Control from the Developer toolbar.

    Word inserts a Rich Text Control at the cursor position. The Section
    reporter uses the control to indicate the position and properties of
    the inline hole.

 7. Select Properties from the Developer toolbar.

    The Content Control Properties dialog box appears.

 8. Enter the name of the hole in the Title and Tag edit boxes of the 
    Content Control Properties dialog. The name of the hole must be the
    same as the name of the property whose value fills the hole at report
    generation time.

 9. (Optional) Specify a default style to apply to the text that fills this
    hole. To specify the style:

     i. Select "Use a style to format text typed into empty control".
    ii. Select a style from the Style drop-down menu.

        Note: the style must be a text style or a linked text or paragraph
        style. If the style does not appear in the list, create the style
        and reselect this option.

10. Select OK to close the dialog box.

11. Save the template document.

SHOW DEVELOPER TAB

The Word Developer tab allows you to create holes in you template. It does
not appear on the Word ribbon by default. To show the tab:

1. Select Options from the Word File menu.

   The Word Options dialog box appears.

2. Select Customize Ribbon in the dialog box

   The Customize Ribbon options panel appears. The panel contains
   a Customize the Ribbon list box.

3. Select Main Tab from the Customize the Ribbon list box.

   A list of main ribbon tabs appears.

4. Select Developer in the list of main ribbon tabs.

5. Select OK to close the dialog.


EDIT PAGE HEADERS AND FOOTERS

To edit the Section (Chapter) reporter's headers and footers:

1. Insert the Section1 template in the body of the template document.

   See CUSTOMIZE A DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE for information on how to 
   insert a Section1 template in the body of a document.

   Note: this creates a Section1 page layout section in the main template.
   You can then use standard Word editing features to edit the page layout
   of the Section1 template.

2. Position the Word insertion point between the CONTENT hole and the
   section break symbol.

3. Insert two page breaks in the document. This cause Word to display
   the default headers and footers of the Section1 template's first and
   following pages.

   NOTE. The header for the second and following pages display the 
   following error message: Eroor! No text of specified style in 
   document." This message occurs because the header for page 2 and
   following pages contains a StyleRef field that instructs Word to look
   for text having the default section title style. Only a hole for a title
   exists in the Section1 template. The title itself does not exist in the
   template. Hence, the error message. You can ignore the message. 
   Generating a report based on the template will fill the hole with a
   title having the expected style. Thus, an error will not occur.

4. Use standard Word header and footer workflows to edit the headers and
   footers. To edit the header of the first page, double click in the
   header. Word opens the header for editing. After you are done editing
   the header, click in the body of the page to close the header.

 5. Delete the page breaks that you added to the template.

 6. Select and save the edited template in the Quick Parts gallery.

    See CUSTOMIZE A DOCUMENT PART TEMPLATE for information on how to save
    the edited SECTION1 template.

 7. Select and delete the version of the template in the body of the
    main template document.

 8. Seve the main template.

TIP: Use an invisible table to arrange header and footer content. For
example, to create content on the left, center, and right positions of
a header, first insert a 1x3 invisible table in the header. Set the
width of the table to be the width of the section page between its left
and right margins. Then enter left content in the left cell of the table,
middle content in the middle cell, and right content in the right cell.
Set the alignment of the cells to be left, center, and right,
respectively. Use more complex tables to implement more complex header and
footer layouts.